#Quickstart Guide
If you don’t want to play with any of the configuration options and instead just want to jump into building something, then by all means let’s dig in.

# Enabling CodeByrner
You’re in luck, CodeByrner comes enabled out of the box!

# Creating A Page (Controller)
Creating a page in CodeByrner begins exactly where it does in CodeIgniter: your controller. The only difference is that instead of handling all the logic that builds all the pieces of the page within a method, you define components and where those components fit on the page, and then tell the page to build. Also, make sure you extend the Page class, not the CI_Controller or MY_Controller classes.

Creating a simple page with one single component might look like this:

	<?php
	
	Class Simplepage extends Page {
	
	    function index()
	    {
	        $this->addComponent('SimpleComponent');
	        $this->build();
	    }
	}

# Creating A Component
So far we've added a component to the page, but that component doesn't exist yet. We need to create that component. We do this by creating a file named SimpleComponent.php in the application/libraries/components folder. By default, when a component is called to be placed on a page, the index method is called. So the inside of our SimpleComponent.php file might look something this:

	<?php
	
	class SimpleComponent extends Component {
	
	    function index()
	    {
	    	date_default_timezone_set('UTC');
	        $date = date('F j, Y');
	        $odd_even = date('j') % 2 == 0 ? 'even' : 'odd';
	        $data = array(
	            'date' => $date,
	            'odd_even' => $odd_even
	        );
	
	        return $this->build('simple_component', $data);
	    }
	}

You may have noticed that this looks a lot like how a controller normally works in CodeIgniter, and that's the point. Working inside your components will be comfortable and familiar to you (if I did my job right). Get some data, write some logic to build an associative array of information to pass to your view, and then load your view. The only caveat is that you're using the build() method instead of using $this->load->view() at the end. This is mostly just for convenience - build() merely calls $this->load->view() but will always return the output, instead of passing it on to the browser.

# Creating a View
Creating and working with views is identical to how views work in a standard CodeIgniter install. Simply create a simple_component.php file in the application/views folder and add some markup. Let's try this for now:

	<div>
		<p>Today's date is <?=$date?>. Looks like the day of the month is an <?=$odd_even?> number.</p>
	</div>

Once we have completed this step we are technically finished, but you might be wondering, "ok, so once I return all the HTML generated by my components, how exactly does it build a complete page?" If you're curious, continue to the next heading...

# Defining A Layout
Getting all the HTML from your components is great, but you need to do something with it. Components provide content for a small part of your page, so you need something to define a _structure_ in which to place your components. This is what a layout is used for. Layouts are stored (by default) in the application/views/layouts directory and work exactly the same way that any other view would work. A layout should define the html structure in which to place your components, and you merely echo a variable wherever you want to display content. There's no limit to the number of areas of content that you can define with a page layout - just keep echoing out variables.

The variable name you use for a section in the layout is the section's name. You'll notice that in our Simplepage example we only passed the name of the component when we called the addComponent() method. We could have passed a second parameter which would be the name of the section to place the component's content. If you don't pass one then CodeByrner will just default to adding it to the section named "content".

Confused? An example to clear things up...

We never defined a layout to use, so CodeByrner will use basic.php in application/views/layouts. Let's open this file and change its contents to the following:

	<html>
	    <head>
	    	<title>CodeByrner Quick Start</title>
	        <style>
	            div#wrapper { margin: 10px auto; border: 1px solid #000; width: 600px;}
	            p { text-align: center; }
	        </style>
	    </head>
	    <body>
	        <div id="wrapper">
	            <!-- Define a section named "content" -->
	            <?if(isset($content)) echo $content?>
	        </div>
	    </body>
	</html>

You'll notice we defined only one section that we can add components to, and we named it "content". We can add an unlimited number of components to our "content" section, but it's still the only section in this layout.

So now the HTML markup returned from our component will be sent to the layout as the variable "content". As you might expect it will get printed inside the div with a class of "wrapper". If we had multiple components added to the same section, their HTML markup would be combined and added as one big string in that spot. They would appear in the order that they were added in our controller.

It's important to note the isset() check. It's perfectly fine to have no components defined for a section, but if we don't ensure that there's data for a section before trying to print the variable, PHP will throw an error on the page.

# That's It
Going into any more detail would defeat the purpose of this page. For more information on any particular topic, feel free to browse the complete documentation (just as soon as I finish it all). There's more goodies built into CodeByrner, I invite you check them all out. And, as always, please send constructive feedback my way.